docs/ISD-6011: Add security documentation to mattermost (#74)
canonical/mattermost-k8s-operator: docs/explanation/security.rst

`official Mattermost documentation <https://docs.mattermost.com/about/security.html>`__.

Outdated software
-----------------

Outdated software components, such as the upstream Mattermost workload or charm
dependencies, can introduce exploitable security vulnerabilities.

Best practices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Regularly `upgrade the charm <https://charmhub.io/mattermost-k8s>`__ revision to
   include the latest charm components. Updates include security fixes from
   dependencies and the workload, as charm dependencies are regularly updated.
-  Regularly update Juju to the latest version to include security fixes.
-  Deploy observability, such as the
   `Canonical Observability Stack <https://charmhub.io/topics/canonical-observability-stack>`__,
   to detect unusual behaviours. See `How to integrate with COS </how-to/integrate-with-cos.md>`__.

Loss of data
------------

The Mattermost database or uploaded files can be lost or corrupted for various
reasons, including hardware failure, accidental deletion, or software errors.

.. _best-practices-1:

Best practices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Use S3 for file storage so that uploads are stored externally and can be

>    recovered independently of the workload. See `Integrations </reference/integrations.md>`__.

Reviewer: Question: What's the integration/configuration process like for S3 + Mattermost? Does it require a dedicated guide? (That's out of scope for this PR, but if you think the guide is warranted, we should create a backlog ticket for it)

Author: We could add it as a small documentation, however the setup for S3 should be done from the provider side, see: https://github.com/canonical/s3-integrator

We could have a piece of documentation directing to s3-integrator probably.

Reviewer: We could write an "Integrations" reference page and include a link to the s3-integrator charm docs for the S3 integration. WDYT?

Author: https://github.com/canonical/mattermost-k8s-operator/blob/main/docs/reference/integrations.md There is one page like this ( not RST'd yet ). We can modify here.

Edit: Actually it is already linked to that charm so should be good.

-  Use a dedicated `Charmed PostgreSQL <https://charmhub.io/postgresql-k8s>`__ and
   regularly back up the database through the charm's

>    `backup action <https://canonical-charmed-postgresql.readthedocs-hosted.com/14/how-to/back-up-and-restore/create-a-backup/>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `backup action <https://canonical.com/data/postgresql/docs/14/how-to/back-up-and-restore/create-a-backup/>`__.
```

-  Enable S3 server-side encryption by setting the ``s3-server-side-encryption``
   configuration option to ``true`` (requires a Mattermost Enterprise licence and
   S3-side configuration).

Unencrypted traffic
-------------------

If Mattermost serves plain HTTP, the traffic between Mattermost and its clients
is unencrypted, risking eavesdropping and tampering.

.. _best-practices-2:

Best practices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Integrate the Mattermost charm with an ingress controller that provides TLS
   termination, such as

>    `Traefik <https://charmhub.io/traefik-k8s>`__. The ``go-framework`` extension used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `Traefik <https://charmhub.io/traefik-k8s>`__. The `Go framework extension <https://canonical.com/juju/docs/charmcraft/4.3/reference/extensions/go-framework-extension/>`_ used
```
nit

   by this charm provides built-in ingress support.
-  Ensure the SMTP relay connection is encrypted. When configuring the
   `smtp-integrator <https://charmhub.io/smtp-integrator>`__, use a transport
   security mode that enforces TLS (such as ``starttls``).

Authentication and access control
---------------------------------

> Weak or mis-configured authentication increases the risk of unauthorized access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Weak or misconfigured authentication increases the risk of unauthorized access
```
If the spellchecker is complaining about the un-dashed version, add to the custom wordlist

to sensitive team communications.

.. _best-practices-3:

Best practices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Integrate the charm with an ``OAuth`` identity provider (such as
   `Hydra <https://charmhub.io/hydra>`__) to enable OpenID Connect-based single

>    sign-on (SSO). This centralises authentication and enforces organisational

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   sign-on (SSO). This centralizes authentication and enforces organizational
```
nit, US spelling for consistency

   login policies.
-  Limit the use of the ``grant-admin-role`` action to only the users who strictly
   require administrative privileges.
-  Keep the ``enable-user-access-tokens`` configuration option disabled (``false``)
   unless your workflows explicitly require Personal Access Tokens. If enabled,
   regularly audit issued tokens.

Push notification privacy
-------------------------

Push notification payloads that include message content can leak confidential
information if the push notification service or the device is compromised.

.. _best-practices-4:

Best practices
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Keep the ``push-notifications-include-message-snippet`` configuration option
   set to ``false`` (the default). This ensures push payloads include only a
   message identifier, and the full content is fetched by the mobile client
   directly from the Mattermost server.
-  Only configure ``push-notification-server`` to point to a trusted push proxy
   (for example, the Mattermost Hosted Push Notification Service or a

>    self-hosted push proxy).

Reviewer: Question: Do you think managing push notifications deserves a dedicated how-to guide? (Again, out of scope for this PR, but would like to create a backlog ticket if you think this would be a valuable guide)

Author: We could direct them to Mattermost guide for the most part of it, probably that's the best and most accurate guide out there. But I can whip up something quick as well. WDYT?

Reviewer: I think having a guide focusing on the charm configuration options (and a link to upstream documentation) would be a nice enhancement. Definitely don't need to do anything now, but if that plan sounds good to you, I'll create a ticket in the backlog for the guide.

Author: Yep sounds good to me. In the meantime, I will merge this PR when CI passes. Thanks!

Reviewer: Thanks so much! I created ISD-6158 in the backlog for the new guide
